I am Sujata Sahu and in this project my main aim was to extract the incident data from the  Norman, Oklahoma police department , creata a SQLite database, insert the data in the database and print the nature and the number of times it appeared.
To do the above I first imported the following packages :
urllib
tempfile
re
sqlite3
PyPDF4

The installation of above packages was done using pip install. Below is the complete explanation of installation:

Having Python and pip installed on your system prior is required.
Create a new directory for the project using the mkdir command and change to that directory using cd.
Change to the project0 directory using cd.
Install the pipenv package by running the command pip install pipenv.
Install all the dependencies listed in the requirements.txt file by running the command pipenv install -r requirements.txt.
To run the unit tests for the project, use the command pipenv run pytest.
To run the main.py file, use the command pipenv run python main.py --incidents <url>, where <url> is the URL of the PDF file containing the incident data.

The following are the 3 functions I created to carry out the required operation:
a. fetchincidents()
b. extractIncidents()
c. create_populateDatabase()

fetchincident()- This function will get the data from the website and at the end it will return the data.

extractIncident()- This function, extractIncidents, takes in incident_data, which is a PDF file containing incident reports, as its argument. The function attempts to read the PDF file, extract the text from each page, and parse the incident reports from the text. If successful, the function returns a list of incidents, where each incident is a list containing 5 elements: the incident number, the date and time of the incident, the location of the incident, a brief description of the incident, and the status of the incident.
If there is an error in the process, the function prints an error message indicating that there was an error in extracting incidents from the PDF file.
The function uses the tempfile module to create a temporary file to store the incident data, and the PyPDF2 module to read the PDF file and extract its content. It also uses regular expressions (re.split()) to split the text into incident reports based on their formatting.
Overall, this function can be used to automate the process of extracting incident reports from a PDF file and processing them for further analysis or storage.

create_populateDatabase()-
Instead of writing the separate function i wrote this function, create_populateDatabase,which perform all the three taskand at the end gives me the desired output.It takes in a list of incidents as its argument and performs several tasks related to creating and populating a SQLite database with the incident data.

First, the function connects to the SQLite database named 'incident.db' using the sqlite3 module. It then creates a table named 'incidents' with five columns: date_time, incident_number, location, nature, and ori.
Next, the function populates the 'incidents' table with the data from the incidents list using the executemany method of the SQLite cursor object. Each incident in the list is a tuple containing the values for the five columns in the 'incidents' table.
After populating the table, the function executes a SQL query to count the number of incidents by their nature, and orders the results by the count in descending order and then by the nature in ascending order. The results are then printed to the console.
Finally, the function closes the connection to the database.
Overall, this function can be used to automate the process of creating and populating a SQLite database with incident data, and then analyzing the data to provide insights about the nature of the incidents.

Bugs faced :
While importing the packages I faced issue installing PyPDF4 as it runs in one application in my local directory and it doesnt run in other. But when I ran in vmware it run successfully.
I wrote the program where I created the table and for the first time it gave me the correct value but when I was running again and again the value of nature appeared was getting doubled and then i added drop_table='''drop TABLE incidents'''  to my code which solved the issue.Now my functions works perfectly.
